The President:
Good morning.
Over the past few months, as
we have put in place a plan to
speed our economic recovery, I've spoken repeatedly of the
need to lay a new foundation
for lasting prosperity;
a foundation that will support
good jobs and rising incomes;
a foundation for economic growth
where we no longer rely on
excessive debt and
reckless risk -
but instead rely on skilled workers and sound investments to
lead the world in the
industries of the 21st century.
Two pillars of this new
foundation are clean energy
and health care.
And while there remains a great
deal of difficult work ahead,
I'm heartened by what we've
seen these past few days:
a willingness of those with
different points of view and
disparate interests to come
together around common goals -
to embrace a shared sense
of responsibility and make
historic progress.
Chairman Henry Waxman and
members of the Energy and
Commerce Committee brought
together stakeholders from all
corners of the country - and
every sector of our economy -
to reach a historic
agreement on comprehensive
energy legislation.
It's another promising
sign of progress,
as longtime opponents
are sitting together,
at the same table, to help
solve one of America's most
serious challenges.
For the first time, utility
companies and corporate leaders
are joining, rather
than opposing,
environmental advocates and labor leaders to create a new
system of clean energy initiatives that will help
unleash a new era of
growth and prosperity.
It's a plan that will finally
reduce our dangerous dependence
on foreign oil and cap the
carbon pollution that threatens
our health and our climate.
Most important, it's a plan that
will trigger the creation of
millions of new
jobs for Americans,
who will produce the wind
turbines and solar panels and
develop the alternative
fuels to power the future.
Because this we know: the nation
that leads in 21st century clean
energy is the nation that
will lead the 21st century
global economy.
America can and
must be that nation -
and this agreement is a
major step toward this goal.
But we know that our
families, our economy,
and our nation itself will not
succeed in the 21st century if
we continue to be held down by
the weight of rapidly rising
health care costs and a
broken health care system.
That's why I met with
representatives of insurance and
drug companies,
doctors and hospitals,
and labor unions who are
pledging to do their part to
reduce health care costs.
These are some of the groups who've been among the fiercest
critics of past comprehensive
health care reform plans.
But today they too are
recognizing that we must act.
Our businesses will
not be able to compete;
our families will not be
able to save or spend;
our budgets will remain
unsustainable unless we get
health care costs under control.
These groups have pledged to do
their part to reduce the annual
health care spending growth
rate by 1.5 percentage points.
Coupled with
comprehensive reform,
their efforts could help to save
our nation more than $2 trillion
in the next ten years - and
save hardworking families $2,500
each in those coming years.
This week, I also invited
Speaker of the House
Nancy Pelosi, Majority
Leader Steny Hoyer, and other
congressional leaders to
the White House to discuss
comprehensive health
reform legislation.
The House is working to pass
a bill by the end of July -
before they head out
for their August recess.
That's the kind of urgency and
determination we need to achieve
comprehensive reform by
the end of this year.
And the reductions in spending
the health care community has
pledged will help make
this reform possible.
I've always believed that it
is better to talk than not to
talk; that it's far more
productive to reach over a
divide than to shake
your fists across it.
This has been an alien notion
in Washington for far too long,
but we're seeing that
the ways of Washington are
beginning to change.
For the calling of this moment
is too loud and too urgent
to ignore.
Our success as a nation - the
future of our children and
grandchildren - depend upon our
willingness to cast aside old
arguments, overcome
stubborn divisions,
and march forward as one
people and one nation.
This is how progress
has always been made.
This is how a new
foundation will be built.
We cannot assume that
interests will always align,
or that fragile
partnerships will not fray.
There will be setbacks.
There will be difficult days.
But we're off to a good start.
And I'm confident that we will - in the weeks, months, and years
ahead - build on what we've already achieved and lay this
foundation which will not only bring about prosperity for this
generation, but for
generations to come.
Thanks so much.